README.md, before:

# LiVEkiosk

**LiVEkiosk** is a web-based application, which can monitor when YouTube streams/premieres go live and load them accordingly, like a kiosk would.
It also works if a video is provided, in which case it will be loaded instantly.

## Getting Started

1. **Clone** this repository `git clone https://github.com/niilun/LiVEkiosk.git` or download it as an archive, and extract it.

2. Next, install all prerequisites:
    - [**Python**](https://www.python.org/downloads/) - also run `pip install -r requirements.txt` from the root folder to install all requirements.
    - [**NodeJS**](https://nodejs.org/) - then navigate to the `frontend` folder and run `npm install` in a terminal.

3. Now, start both the backend & frontend servers:
    - navigate to the `backend` folder and run the backend server `py`/`python`/`python3` `server.py`. 
    - go to the `frontend` folder and run `npm start` in another terminal.

4. To load LiVEkiosk for a specific video, go to `http://localhost:3000?id=your_youtube_id`, where your_youtube_id is the ID (the string after `?v=` in a youtube link) of the video/stream.

> **NOTE:** The **backend** runs on `localhost:5000` and the **frontend** on `localhost:3000`

## Customization

- **LiVEkiosk** can be customized by replacing the following files:
    - **watermark**, in `frontend/public/watermark.png` - the watermark placed in the top right of the webpage.
    - **background**, in `frontend/src/background.jpg` - the background image of the whole webpage.
    - **background-info**, in `frontend/src/background-info.png` - the background image of the status box.

> **NOTE:** these can be **images** or **gifs** but NOT **videos**.

## Autoplay

The stream is supposed to autoplay, however most browsers **refuse** to play video automatically, more so with audio, **until the user has interacted with the page**.
This isn't fixable on the server, the client (browser) either has to **interact** (click something) on the webpage, or **allow it manually**.

## Extra info / Acknowledgments

The backend runs under [**Flask**](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/stable/), and the frontend is powered by [**React**](https://react.dev/)

## License

This software is licensed under the [MIT License](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MIT_License).

Commit message:

add: capability to play a notification when stream is ready, update: README with info

README.md, after:

# LiVEkiosk

**LiVEkiosk** is a web-based application, which can monitor when YouTube streams/premieres go live and load them accordingly, like a kiosk would.
It also works if a video is provided, in which case it will be loaded instantly.

## Getting Started

1. **Clone** this repository `git clone https://github.com/niilun/LiVEkiosk.git` or download it as an archive, and extract it.

2. Next, install all prerequisites:
    - [**Python**](https://www.python.org/downloads/) - also run `pip install -r requirements.txt` from the root folder to install all requirements.
    - [**NodeJS**](https://nodejs.org/) - then navigate to the `frontend` folder and run `npm install` in a terminal.

3. Now, start both the backend & frontend servers:
    - navigate to the `backend` folder and run the backend server `py`/`python`/`python3` `server.py`. 
    - go to the `frontend` folder and run `npm start` in another terminal.

4. To load LiVEkiosk for a specific video, go to `http://localhost:3000?id=your_youtube_id`, where your_youtube_id is the ID (the string after `?v=` in a youtube link) of the video/stream.

> **NOTE:** The **backend** runs on `localhost:5000` and the **frontend** on `localhost:3000`

## Customization

- **LiVEkiosk** has several elements that can be customized:
    - a **watermark**, in `frontend/public/watermark.png` - the watermark placed in the top right of the webpage.
    - the **background**, in `frontend/src/background.jpg` - the background image of the whole webpage.
    - the **background-info** box, in `frontend/src/background-info.png` - the background image of the status box.
    - a **notification** sound effect to be played when the stream is live, requiring the variable `doNotification` to be set to `true` and a `ready.ogg/mp3/wav/etc.` audio file be placed in `frontend/public`.

> **NOTE:** these can be **images** or **gifs** but NOT **videos**.

## Troubleshooting autoplay

The stream is supposed to autoplay, however most browsers **refuse** to play video automatically, more so with audio, **until the user has interacted with the page**.
This isn't fixable on the server, the client (browser) either has to **interact** (click something) on the webpage, or **allow it manually**.

Not interacting with the webpage also prevents the **notification** from being played, until an interaction is done.

## Extra info / Acknowledgments

The backend runs under [**Flask**](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/stable/), and the frontend is powered by [**React**](https://react.dev/)

## License

This software is licensed under the [MIT License](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MIT_License).
